you may think there's nothing new for  you to hear about this case you may  think i  have nothing new  to share  but you're wrong oh didn't this occur to  you didn't it ever occur to you once  that durianrider's side of the story  might be worth listening to yeah yeah  you're going to see some more  screenshots like this later in the video  you're going to hear me narrate some  more of the correspondence i've had with  durianrider in the last couple of years  but just with this first snapshot you  can see the dynamics of the conversation  at a glance i'm pressing him  to take responsibility for the  allegations he made against me i'm  pressing him to admit  publicly in a youtube video that this  was nothing but a bunch of lies that he  made up himself  and although he is being friendly in his  reply to me although he is being jocular  and for several years now we've managed  to remain friendly and jocular with one  another he's nevertheless refusing to  take responsibility he's nevertheless  refusing to say publicly that this is  defamation pure and simple these were  nothing but lies and fantasies that he  made up in his own head  and as i've already said in a recent  video they're lies that have had  devastating long-term effects for me and  my life  but the devastation  was mutual and the devastation for him  for his life  for his career  no doubt has been far  far worse  than the devastation in mind  sorry to all my fans our fans man  you guys looked up to us so much  to make up a number off the top of my  head that has no real quantitative basis  i would guestimate that durianrider has  lost 90 percent of his audience if you  put durian rider and freely together the  two of them have lost more than 90  percent of their audience but what's  more significant is this they've lost  the credibility  they had with their audience the few  people the few stragglers who still care  about durianrider's opinion they don't  care about it now the way they used to  they were profoundly discredited by this  conflict they have with me and by the  way i do not depict myself as a passive  victim in that conflict i was a critic  of freely i was a critic of durianrider  and i was much more active and muscular  in that controversy than someone who's  just giving uh the latest batman movie  or the latest star wars movie  a negative review i was engaged in a  political struggle  to define and redefine what the future  of the vegan movement would be i can't  believe that this has happened i can't  believe how many people have sided with  eisel mizard in this case it's just it's  disgusting i can't believe that's  happened i remember when i was traveling  with brianna and we got so frustrated by  so many people trolls i think it was  just certain people with a lot of fake  accounts basically coming on and saying  why aren't you denouncing the acts of  durianrider why aren't you making videos  against assab um a seal  how do you ever say his name you guys  know what i'm talking about um asado  biel  um  i'm sorry i i know that that name's  really wrong but anyways  basically someone who was having  conflict with another youtuber  making claims that person made claims  just personal makeup it's like we were  like why are we obligated to make a  video just because you're vegan and  obvious it doesn't mean i have to make  videos taking my stance on everything  it's like saying i'm a democrat and oh  you didn't make a video  saying why donald trump did this to piss  you off what kind of democrat are you  democrat are you  here i am writing to durianrider  directly  in may of 2019  and i say durianrider  here's an example of somebody who still  believes the lies you made up about me  this is a comment from just within the  last few hours i'll show you that  comment in one moment here  you should really issue a retraction  not an apology you don't need to  apologize  apologies are irrelevant  it doesn't need to be emotional  it needs to be factual  i never had any sexual involvement with  julia bohr i never had any sexual  involvement with a bunch of unnamed  women in quebec who were made up out of  thin air they never existed they never  had names etc you never knew anything  about my sex life  that's what you need to say  but you see here with this example  the title i've put on it is the effects  of defamation last a long long time and  this is something durianrider himself  will now be painfully aware of some  random person on reddit i've never heard  of before or since  says quote this dude is a major [ __ ]  he was caught up in these vegan youtuber  flame wars a few years back i don't know  why i was watching them but it was a  minor obsession  and the impression i got of him was that  he was condescending dishonest and made  a bunch of bizarre inappropriate  advances toward young vegan women  definitely not a character i would trust  this is the reputation  durianrider created  for me unfortunately i wasn't there  unfortunately i wasn't following it  closely and i  simply wasn't aware of what's going what  was going on at the time  but when i found out i took a stand  against this creep because obviously  anyone would and if anyone's ever been  in a similar situation i'm sure that  they would voice the same thing  they would want for that young woman  young girl to be protected and so what i  mean to say is that i just 100 support  what harley did i love the fact that he  stood up for for that girl  clearly no one else was willing to do  that and but that was the right thing to  do that was the only right thing that  should have been done  i'm just amazed that he was the only one  who actually stood up for her i said to  you just a few minutes ago that the  devastation was mutual it wasn't just my  life that was devastated it wasn't just  my career that was ruined oh yes  durianrider's life and career was  devastated certainly freelee's life and  career has been devastated also  but here's the thing  durianrider  earned his reputation  i  didn't  the reputation  i have to live with  is a work of  fiction  made up out of thin air by nobody other  than durianrider himself i have heard  many lies  and exaggerations and unkind half-truths  said about durianrider  by his ex-girlfriends i have heard  defamatory  mean-spirited things said about him  by women  whom he had slept with  in real life  including his ex-girlfriend freely  herself  not the only one  the women  who i supposedly had this scandalous sex  life with  fall into two categories  one the largest one  is that they never existed at all  they were women  made up out of doreen writer's  imagination so there were no complaints  about me the people i'd never met never  said anything on the internet because  they never existed and if you live  through that period of time if you've  been on facebook and on youtube and  connected all the voices if you'd  witnessed these allegations as they came  out  there was a new and different crazy  story about me concocted like every  couple of hours  and each story kind of contradicted and  was incompatible with the one before it  like could i really have been  simultaneously in quebec and germany and  scotland  while earning a university degree on the  west coast of canada like there were a  lot of things that just fundamentally  didn't make sense  and that's why it was only incredibly  stupid people and incredibly  mean-spirited people whoever believed  these stories  but guess what i've learned in the past  eight years those people they greatly  outnumber the intelligent  well-intentioned people and that's why  we have laws against defamation but  here's the thing here's the thing  even if what dorian ryder's  ex-girlfriends said against him even if  it was very unkind very unreasonable or  impartially untrue  those women  actually were his ex-girlfriends he'd  met them he'd spoken to them he'd had  sex with them and they don't dispute  that and he doesn't assume that they're  like yeah they had a relationship  in my case either the allegations  concern women who never existed at all  or they were women i have never met face  to face and never even had sexual emails  with nothing in either case it's  complete fiction it's defamation so  while i would easily say durianrider's  life has been ruined far more than mine  in his case his life was ruined as a  consequence of deeds and misdeeds he'd  actually done  sins of omission and sins of but they  were his sins they were decisions he  made that have had terrible consequences  for him in my case  i'm dealing with the consequences of a  fiction  made up  in the mind  of durianrider  i can't believe that people would be so  stupid to actually pick  isil it's like they would pick anyone  just not harley because they have some  personal grudge against harley it's just  disgusting so  it's just this is why vegans annoy me  and then they continue by saying eating  in front of a camera is not activism  nick  said i'm not obligated to be an activist  i never call myself an activist get lost  like  people are really upset with me because  i didn't make enough videos saying  during writer did this like obviously  you love him because you're not saying  anything about him it's like there's  lots of people that i don't agree with  you know we made videos saying we don't  agree with him being gay i mean saying  that being gay is a choice  i'm not obligated to pick apart someone  on youtube for your entertainment you  know this is why the vegan community is  [ __ ] and a lot of people have been  commenting on harley's advice  specifically saying that it's crap  saying that it doesn't work saying that  all kinds of bad things about his advice  and it's just not true there are still  those of us who are out here  as proof  that harley's advice does work i  followed it i got the results that he  promises  upon following  the advice okay so i'm making this video  because i'm just kind of really sick and  tired of seeing videos of all these  young girls who are like captivated and  mesmerized and just  following freely the banana girl blindly  mostly because at one point i was one of  those girls uh i  bought right into her rattle for a diet  i committed to it for  about a year  and  the results were  terrifying  that i bought into this diet so much and  believed everything that she was saying  that i followed this to like a t i never  even slipped up once i was  perfect  with this  and i was at by the time i was done i  was at the highest weight i've ever been  in my entire life right now i'm about  153  and my lowest ever was probably about  140  and i was at 178  when i finished my  bronto4 diet and i looked  like someone took a straw and like put  it in my body and went  like i looked  like like a marshmallow person it was  disgusting i can't watch one more young  girl go on freely the banana girls diet  and gain 60 pounds and just continue to  say that they believe that this is to  work for them i kept getting fatter and  more bloated and i was getting stretch  marks on my thighs and stomach something  that i had never experienced before  i just watched freely's video this  morning about being sick of the diet  industry and i feel so good now  ready to go to the gym and kill it  ready to smash my smoothies in today i'm  just ready i'm just ready and i'm ready  to stop being depressed about not being  able to fit into a size six pair of  lemons  time to heal it's just so goddamn long  but i feel like a lot of people can feel  and share my  pain but  at least we're doing this now right as  opposed to like six months  or like a year like in a year i'm sure  i'll be fully healed because i  i'm putting in the work right now can  you see the drastic difference in my  face from that video i can't believe  that even though i was growing what  appears to be a double chin  i was still  going through with this i was still  steamrolling like a little engine that  could  i was on the rattle 4 train  i'm sorry but  all you're doing is  maybe you're taking girls that were  anorexic bulimic drug history whatever  they give that up to go on rochelle 4.  and all you're doing is creating  girls that are vegan that now have binge  eating disorder i guess i really really  really  am reaching out to and feel sorry for  the girls that i see who are really  young and they're gaining massive  amounts of weight and  you know people coming off of eating  disorders they  that's  psychologically traumatizing to  you know put on that amount of weight  she's basically a poor man's julia bore  she did the raw till four gained weight  still swears by them i'm specif i'm  specifically speaking of one youtuber  who i started i came across who  in a year gained like  i mean it looks like 60 pounds on  rochelle 4. it's  it's  astounding so you've seen this first  message just a minute ago  and now you're gonna see durianrider's  reply quote  we should do a live stream or  pre-recorded interview for your channel  then you can link to that discussion on  the thread  to be fair you did start all this by  trashing me and freely and then coming  to chiang mai lol  you kicked the hornet's nest  you did talk with julia but because she  was mentally ill she blew it up more  than it was to me and so did that  scottish anorexic check  i then believed what they were saying  and [ __ ] went downhill from there for  the both of us  it's everybody's fault but his  right  in case you haven't guessed i've heard  julia bore's side of the story it was on  the internet while i was still in chiang  mai she addressed it then and basically  made this kind of lie and deception  impossible and i have heard the scottish  anorexic chick side of the story you can  hear my interview with her on this  channel  he is trying to apportion blame to  others when there's really nobody to  blame but durianrider himself i write  back very simply and very bluntly  dude  a lie is a lie  you made up lies about me  and i didn't make up lies about you i'm  in bangkok currently and for the next  few days  he writes back  how long are you going to be in thailand  for we will be there in a few weeks we  could even film it in a park  just point out this is may of 2019  no action was ever taken no initiative  was ever taken on his side he's never  lifted a finger to make this right or to  take responsibility in any way he  followed up that short message by saying  and if you find anything on the net that  you want me to delete about you then let  me know i'm happy to delete it i think  the video that irked me the most was you  did something about crohn's disease and  said i never had it or something and  that pissed me off because i did have  years of bleed stools and have helped so  many people with crohn's ibs colitis etc  over the years and a video like that  lowers people's faith in fruit-based  vegan diets he's leaving out a few words  here for digestive recovery if that  makes sense  i don't care if people call me a  [ __ ] or whatever but when they knock  information i'm just putting out there  so people can get healthier stay vegan  etc it gets me pissed  lol  you would have to have a very short  memory indeed to leave this version of  events  but as you'll see i keep this a  relatively upbeat friendly discussion in  my reply quote  yeah i know  the video on crohn's disease was the  first video from my channel you replied  to  however  what you said about crohn's disease then  before and since  was entirely false  on the rich role podcast you admitted  you had never been diagnosed with a  disease although you've made videos  claiming you were diagnosed with the  condition contradicting yourself and  obviously lying for example you clearly  didn't know what the procedure for  diagnosis was  whatever was wrong with you durianrider  one you were never diagnosed with  crohn's disease  two  you never cured crohn's disease  and you falsely claimed both  crohn's disease is an incurable illness  if you had bloody diarrhea for some  reason and then it stopped that is not a  basis to claim that you found the cure  for crohn's  i talked to someone who actually has the  disease and who cross-examined you on  live stream and you clearly knew less  about it than the average person who  just reads a wikipedia article on the  subject and yeah i've made videos on all  this stuff including one in dialogue  with that person who cross-examined you  for more than two years you carried on a  campaign against me calling me a  pedophile calling me a sexual predator  and calling me a scam artist  you didn't just make threats of violence  against me you claimed i was guilty of  fraud a serious crime when you knew the  court case was real you knew the  paperwork was real etc ironically nor  vegan's court case really was fake and  norwegian lied about his paperwork as  i've pointed out on youtube in effect  i've argued in your defense in many  videos now simply because it's the right  thing to do  you know  other people in chiang mai went up to  the courthouse saw the paperwork was  real saw the case posted on the board  and some of them even attended hearings  for example joe bested and yet for about  two years you carried on claiming that i  was a scam artist guilty of serious  financial crimes along with all the rest  of it  this isn't comparable to my critique of  your health advice about crohn's disease  it isn't the same durianrider  i told the truth  you  lied and you went after my mom  and you went after my ex-wife  and you probably impacted my child  custody situation with my daughter  for years to come  it's not the same harley  you can go back and watch that video  again in which i prove you lied about  crohn's disease just by quoting what you  said to ritual we're only in bangkok for  about seven more days we won't be here  at the same time  i now live in taiwan  if you can call it a life  and durianrider replies  your ex-wife contacted me  if my memory serves right  you pissed me man  so you can't blame me for going along  with her  ha ha  this is a common pattern  everything is somebody else's fault he  blames the anorexic girl in scotland  he blames julia boar he blames my  ex-wife even  and the reality is it was him it was  durianrider himself who showed the  initiative who created this whole  conflict this whole situation and then  for years he kept doubling down on his  lies making everything worse and worse  quote one thing i've learned from these  last few years is if someone tries to  cloak chase or attack etc it is best i  just ignore it as opposed to throwing it  back and making the situation worse for  everyone  i'm pretty sure i don't have any  negative content about you still up  but like i said i'm happy to delete  anything you don't like as you have now  become a voice of reason for a few  things and i do appreciate that  so credit is due  how is taiwan  compared to thailand  so in some ways in the passage of a few  years of pressing durianrider on this  issue  we made  progress  and in some ways  we  did  not harley's been nothing but a positive  influence in my life he's been truthful  he's been  of good intentions  and that is not something that i can say  about  this  person who's online who goes by the name  of isil mazzart whose real name is  benjamin lord dexter  whatever and  uh  and i am just disgusted by all of the  people  who i know  were so heavily influenced by harley and  his advice who took everything they  could from harley  who have  immigrated onto supporting this man who  wants to essentially destroy harley for  who he is online and what he has like do  you have no  concern for what is right and what is  wrong do you have no moral  guidance in you how can you pick someone  who is an obvious bully who threatens  with violence who cannot even take the  responsibility of rearing a child of  treating a woman the right way who's  actually banned from seeing his wife and  child  who doesn't pay child support like how  can you stand for someone like that how  can you stand with someone like that is  disgusting  this man is disgusting  [Music]  i absolutely stand by what harley did  and what he said about him i'm  absolutely disgusted at the fact that  nobody else had stood up for  the 16 year old girl  who was being targeted by this  creep isil mazzard  last year at harley's festival not  everyone is an idiot even in this  intellectually dismal context of these  allegations and counter-allegations  being made in a youtube comment section  below a video this stupid you will find  there are some people lining up to point  out the obvious facts of the case and  insist on the difference between right  and wrong somebody called spicy dragoon  writes in and says the cognitive  distance of comments like yours never  fails to amaze me and this is why  justice is so difficult whether or not  you find isil mazar pompous or arrogant  is beside the point durianrider accused  him of being a pedophile it can be  proven that those allegations are false  despite that fact to this day  durianrider has consistently made those  allegations  the next crime is that whilst islamizard  was in chiang mai during writer and his  followers threatened him with violence  and said that people were out looking  for him the first accusation without  evidence is known as libel libel meaning  as defined by google a published false  statement that is damaging to a person's  reputation a written defamation if  memory serves me isil mazard is a  teacher which means that an accusation  like that by someone with a significant  online following can cause him to lose  his job it can also cause him problems  with his personal life so as a massage  has an obligation to defend himself if  he has issues with his ex-wife that's  nothing at all to do with people online  or durianrider making up these libelous  allegations against me  here's the thing  you can take one of two attitudes  towards this one is kind of passive and  defensive you can say as he puts it here  that you have to defend yourself  and the other  is more active and assertive you can  look i don't have to defend myself  i could sweep this under the rug ignore  it forget about it and move on with my  life i'm choosing to stand up and do the  right thing because it's the right thing  to do i've known women personally who  were victims of rape  and they had to make the decision were  they going to let this become a  multi-year long legal battle were they  going to stand up and press charges  against their rapist or were they going  to sweep it under the rug forget about  it and get on with their own lives that  might be more convenient for them  they might be able to just withstand the  psychological damage and get on with  their lives you know what the problem is  the right thing to do  is to stand up and put that guy behind  bars even if you don't have any hurt  feelings even if the only point is to  prevent someone else from becoming his  next victim if you look at the litany of  criminal allegations against donald  trump you have to ask the question what  if someone at some point had stood up  and done the right thing just because it  was the right thing to do and i don't  just mean the sexual allegations against  donald trump some of which  seem to be [ __ ] but several of those  allegations i've investigated and they  seem to be very substantive seem to be  really serious crimes linked to donald  trump's sex life that could have been  taken to court that could have been made  to change his life forever and thus at  this point changed the lives of  everybody on planet earth forever if  someone had stood up tayden mccord done  everything just because of the right  thing to do  there were also economic crimes they've  been amazing examples of misconduct  throughout the life of donald trump if  you take this defensive attitude that  you have to go to court you have to make  just just just to defend yourself all  right i actually think that's a  fundamentally passive and evil view to  take of questions of justice and  injustice i stood up for myself because  i knew a whole lot of people who  couldn't i stood up and did the right  thing for other victims i already knew  people who already had been victimized  by freelandic i stood up because i'd  seen the damage they'd already done and  i stood up to prevent  more damage being done in the future and  whether or not i win this court case  whether or not this criminal trial  finally ends with durianrider being  handed a jail sentence in thailand in  that sense by standing up on a point of  principle  i won  and if someone  10 years ago 20 years ago had stood up  and put donald trump in prison okay  maybe he would have gone to prison for  six months and maybe he would have gone  to prison for six years  all right  think about the later knock-on  consequences politically for the  leadership of donald trump that's the  sense in which i'm taking a stand here  yeah sure it's partly to defend myself  it's partly to defend or to avenge the  other victims involved here  but as i've said again and again i don't  see myself  as a passive victim i see myself as  someone who's actively engaged in a  political struggle to define and  redefine what the future of the vegan  movement should be but what you don't  see is  the nights where i cry myself to sleep  or  the intense loneliness that i feel or  times where i just feel like giving up i  am struggling and really what what you  see online is  not  i i mean i don't want to say it's not  real because it's still me it's  authentic i i never lie in what i put  online but of course i only show the  good parts  sorry to all my fans  you guys looked up to us so much  i feel like with that india  i'm so sorry  oh oh  remember when those people were getting  shot in the street where was that  belarus is that how you pronounce it  yeah for a short time everyone in the  world seemed to care about the future of  democracy in belarus  and just a few months  later  it seems impossible to jilt them out of  their indifference  on exactly the same issue oh oh oh uh  democracy in  hong kong  yeah wait wasn't there some kind of  revolution in myanmar didn't i see some  footage of people being shot dead in the  streets by  yeah funny how that works there's a  moment in time in which it's possible to  raise millions of dollars in donations  or something and then there are years  there are decades in which it's  impossible to push people out of their  position of complacency of indifference  and to say this really matters you can  really make a difference here and now  i'm in that kind of impossible position  i'm asking you to care  i'm asking you to support this court  case even if the only thing you do is  take the link to this video copy it  paste it and post it on your twitter  post it on facebook  post it on reddit to one of those  horrible vegan forums where people still  believe those lies about me and people  still repeat those lies about me to  challenge those lies and let people see  the human reality of the consequences  that i'm still dealing with  but yes there is a link in the  description below this video there's a  link to a fundraiser and if you can  donate ten dollars if you can donate a  hundred dollars to contribute to the  airplane ticket i'm gonna have to buy  to fly to chiang mai and back to  continue this court case and take it to  its conclusion i really would appreciate  it  and i've got to tell you  sincerely i don't just think you're  helping me  and i don't just think you're harming  durianrider freely or the now debunked  and nearly forgotten raw till 4 cult  that for a few short years seemed like  the most momentous and influential  aspect of the vegan movement  i think that if you support this video  by sharing the link or by donating to  the fundraiser  in a really meaningful sense you're  participating in a dialogue in a debate  in a discussion  about what the future of veganism is  supposed to be  and what the future of civil discourse  on the internet  on youtube it's supposed to be  because i'll tell you something one of  the strangest ironies of this situation  is that if you make a list of all the  topics i agree with during durianrider  on  it's much much longer than the list of  topics we happen to disagree about if he  and i had ever done a podcast or a  roundtable discussion we could have  talked for hours just about the things  we agree about just about the things  that we are both activists and advocates  for positively where we agree 90  or 100 percent on those issues  but was it possible  for me to challenge this guy and for me  to challenge  his cult-like following on the internet  on those few issues where we disagreed  issues although few in number that i  think were tremendously important  ethically politically  and even in terms of diet and weight  loss and health  the whole gamut those few issues  that i thought were important i couldn't  challenge him  without risking my reputation  and in a bizarre  sense  risking my life because yeah  although i'm not afraid for my life i  did have to deal with death threats i  did have to deal with threats of  violence i did have to deal with people  writing to me saying i was going to get  physically captured and dragged to the  police station if not just beaten to a  pulp in the streets of thailand and when  i got that challenge and this is why i  stood up knowing that others couldn't  and knowing that others wouldn't what i  said back was  where do you want to meet me i said you  can meet me at the train station you can  meet me at the police station you can  meet me at the boxing ring oh  oh that's what it's going to be like  whether it's a legal battle or a  physical one i said okay  bring it because i didn't come here to  run away from conflict  i came here to end it  the future of the vegan movement  is not freely  and it's not durianrider  the future of the vegan movement  is you  [Music]  you